bullet_id = comment
7 = The National Resilience Development Strategy (NRDS)  is developed by the Ministry of Planning within the National Development Management Framework (NDMF), which sets the context and the parameters that guide Dominica's development
7 = The NRDS has a monitoring tool called Results Monitoring Matrix/Framework (Annex 1 if the NRDS). The ministry of Planning is in charge ot the monitoring of the NRDS
9= The NRDS has a monitoring tool called Results Monitoring Matrix/Framework (Annex 1 if the NRDS). The ministry of Planning is in charge ot the monitoring of the NRDS
2= CREAD Act Article 9: One function of CREAD is to to monitor progress against reconstruction targets and evaluate the social and economic impact of interventions 
11= Mrs. Joseph identifies Dr. Kyra Paul as a key actor in the process of developing the RBM system 
3 = There is a Results Monitoring Matrix with a set of indicators in the NRDS and we are in the process of developping a proper framework for M&E CREAD and the Ministry of Planning are developing an M&E framework: Within the CRRP there are key pillars, key targets, the key results areas. It goes down to activities and It cascades downwards to the point where every individual will be able to see its role. It is expected that the framework will be ready by July 2022 and implemented within the next fiscal year 
4= There is a Results Monitoring Matrix with a set of indicators in the NRDS and we are in the process of developping a proper framework for M&E CREAD and the Ministry of Planning are developing an M&E framework: Within the CRRP there are key pillars, key targets, the key results areas. It goes down to activities and It cascades downwards to the point where every individual will be able to see its role. It is expected that the framework will be ready by July 2022 and implemented within the next fiscal year 
2= There is not yet an institution in charge of ensuring that any activities for M&E are properly regulated and enforced     
5= We are ble to report on the implementation rate f projects. Ministries go through the process of reporting every project that is consideres priority  
4= Some external institutions pr stakeholders perform evaluations: World Bank, other donors, NGOs 
2= More and more stakeholders are holding the government to the task of insitutionalizing an RBM policy  
1= RBM in legally embeded at secondary and subordinate legislation level. Links or refferences to that legislation are not available since we only have policy documents which are not considered legislation. They are approved by the government. They are the National Resilience Development Strategy 2018-2030; and the Climate Resilience and Recovery Plan 2020-2030 www.planning.gov.dm 
2= There are laws and regulations delegating RBM responsabilities:  - CREAD is in charge of implementing large capital prpjects and capacity enhancement. -  Ministry of Planning - oversight of the PSIP and enforcement of the national development framework  - all line ministries for executing their mandates 
2= RBM mandates are binding across the government at all levels. They all have to oversight the project management process and support development policies.  
2= The link with the legal framework that delegates responsibilities is the following:  www.dominica.gov.dm; www.planning.gov.dm 
2= Policy. evaluations is legally embedded at secondary/ subordinate legislation level. It is additioinal to teh RBM policy. 
3= There is no framework guiding and regulaton the monitoring activities of public policies in Dominica  
4= There is a framwork regulationg and guiding the evaluation activities of public policy in Dominica - the recognize at which levels the guidelines are binding (ministry mandates, projects, strategic policy)- They identify key stakeholders to be part of the evaluation process (ministry implementation plans and work plans) - They identify specific evaluation types - they dientify specific timeframws for each evaluation type  - They establish an iterative process of evaluation - They outline the operationalization process of the national evaluation agenda - There are rules providing all parts in the evaluation process with a way of presenting their opinion 
4= There is no link or document available with these guidelines. Templates are provided to the ministries. The documents guiding and regulatin evaluation activities is in the stage of development.  A consultant has been hired to assist.  
5= There is no framework or guidelines regulating the adress and use of M&E results in Dominica  
3 = The two main monitoring tools that are alignes with Dominica's National Plan are the following: the Results Monitoring Matrix (RMM) of the National Resilience Development Strategy (NRDS) and the Results Framework (RF) of the Climate Resilience Recovery Plan (CRRP). There is no specific tool used by any specific MDA 
7= The two main monitoring tools that are alignes with Dominica's National Plan are the following: the Results Monitoring Matrix (RMM) of the National Resilience Development Strategy (NRDS) and the Results Framework (RF) of the Climate Resilience Recovery Plan (CRRP). There is no specific tool used by any specific MDA 
3 = The monitoring operative handbooks: -identify the relevant activities to develop each stage of the evaluation process (apart from the results monitoring matrix in the NRDS, a document awaits policy approval) -identify the responsible (specific MDAs and units within the MDAs) in every stage of the process - outline specific timeframes to implement every stage of the monitoring process  - outline a dissemination strategy of the monitoring results 
7= The monitoring operative handbooks: -identify the relevant activities to develop each stage of the evaluation process (apart from the results monitoring matrix in the NRDS, a document awaits policy approval) -identify the responsible (specific MDAs and units within the MDAs) in every stage of the process - outline specific timeframes to implement every stage of the monitoring process  - outline a dissemination strategy of the monitoring results 
3= Implementation of the NRDS's Results Monitoring Matrix; Identify MDA's and their roles - CREAD --> Monitoring the implementation of the CRRP; implementing projects, sourcing donor funds and building capacity in the public service - Ministry of Planning --> Largely responsible for ensuring that the goals and target setforth in the CRRP are realized within the given timeframe  - Line Ministries --> Implementation of specific targets, actions and initiatives -  Ministry of Finance --> Providing budgetary support
 
4= Implementation of the NRDS's Results Monitoring Matrix; Identify MDA's and their roles - CREAD --> Monitoring the implementation of the CRRP; implementing projects, sourcing donor funds and building capacity in the public service - Ministry of Planning --> Largely responsible for ensuring that the goals and target setforth in the CRRP are realized within the given timeframe  - Line Ministries --> Implementation of specific targets, actions and initiatives -  Ministry of Finance --> Providing budgetary support
4= There is no operative handbook to implement the evaluation process of social programs and projects in Dominica. Processes for evaluationg are unique to specific social programmes  
3= A tool is being developed currently to digitize the monitoring process and can be submitted upon completion. Meanwhile forms are utilized for reporting 

6= The annual budget allocation correlates to project implementation and that works as an incentive to institutionalize RBM/M&E across government in Dominica (eso dice, pero no veo el claro incentivo)

1= As the Head of Government and Head of the Executive, the Prime Minister is given the right by the Constitution to accept or deny the appointment of several public officers. If not by the Prime Minister, these public officers are appointed by the Public Service Commission 
8= Dominica's fiscal year starts in July. From October-December before the upcoming fiscal year, the government* does an analysis of performance of fiscal and macroeconomic indicators that is documented in the Medium-Term Macro-Economic and Fiscal Outlook Statement 
8= It has to be approved by Cabinet (it is not just financial but also development and planning). Ministry of finance and Planning (Both ministries work together to ensure synergy of the two processes
8= The Pariment in is charge of budgeting and laws. For budgeting, the executive is obliged to go to parliment for approval
8= We have 3 year strategic plans so sometimes they are prepared and sometimes updated and reviewed
8= Lack of strength in monitoring capital projects  
1=  We submit policy papers for every program that we prepare to undertake, that we plan for. We prepare policy papers, policy briefs or concept papers that we deliver to the policy board for approval. (Approves across government) . ONly when it is approved, they more forward to implementation 
1= CREAD recommendations are not biding to the Cabinet. If CREAD approves something, it's only binding for CREAD adn they would have to implement it in collaboration of public service agencies for it to be valid everywhere.  
8= The executive and legislative are organized (by mandate) to be involved in Dominica's budgeting process. The mandate role of the legislature is to debate and authorize (or deny) public spending. The role of the Executive is to design and propose public spending to the legislature. The legislature comprises members from the Government and Opposition. It is a unicameral legislature where both sides typically vote along party lines.
7= The executive and legislative are organized (by mandate) to be involved in Dominica's planning process. The planning role for the legislature is not seen through its oversightfunctions. This exists through the Public Accounts Committee or any other Parliamentary Committee that has been ordered. These Oversight Committees can impact planning though their recommendations. However, apartfrom these, the legislature is not mandated to play a directrole in planning.
3 = Mrs. Andrew mentions that the internal procedures of the Ministry of Planning involve M&E activities, but she doesn't know of a law that mandates M&E activities in the public sector 
4= Mrs. Andrew mentions that the internal procedures of the Ministry of Planning involve M&E activities, but she doesn't know of a law that mandates M&E activities in the public sector 
7= There are two national planning exercices defined for a long term period: the (NRDS) 2030 and the Climate’s Resilience and Recovery Plan (CRRP) 2020-2030 (said to be the operational plan of NRDS)
7= The NRDS was build in a participatory process: MDAs were mandated to contribute to the development of the plan. CREAD was also involved. 
7 = The NRDS has a monitoring tool called Results Monitoring Matrix that defines indicators for the results. Also, The CRRP has a monitoring tool called Results Framework with specific goals, targets, intermediate outcomes, output milestones and initiatives involved. The Ministry of Planning is in charge ot the NRDS's Results Monitoring Matrix. The MDAs are expected to provide certain information that would assist the Ministry of Planning 
9= The NRDS has a monitoring tool called Results Monitoring Matrix that defines indicators for the results. Also, The CRRP has a monitoring tool called Results Framework with specific goals, targets, intermediate outcomes, output milestones and initiatives involved. The Ministry of Planning is in charge ot the NRDS's Results Monitoring Matrix. The MDAs are expected to provide certain information that would assist the Ministry of Planning
7= They know evaluation shall be done at some point but don't know when or who will be in charge, probably the Ministry of Planning 
7= Unaware if there exists any regulation that mandates the M&E excercise  
7= Ministries are supposed to provide with infomration on progress towards the achievements of outputs monthly  
7=  In the NRDS, there is a section which speaks to the need to augment our international and regional relations. 
8= There is a process with key milestones of the national budgetary process, all within the Financial Adminitration Act.  
8= The  budget process that is divided in two "sides": capital projects/development (PSIP) and recurrent. The Ministry of Planning  is in charge of the development side and the Ministry of Finance of the recurring side. Finance is overall responsible for the compilation of the budget (capital and recurrent). Every year, there is a budget calendar which is a list of sequence activities conducted by different stakeholders. A budget call is made, and a circular of guidelines to elaborate the budget proposal is sent to the MDAs. After that, the MDAs have six weeks to elaborate the proposal. The Ministry of planning urges the MDAs to consider have pre-budget discussions. Then, the budget drafts are sent to approval to the Cabinet, and later to the House of Parliament.  
8= The most dissagregated unit in the budget is project / programme activities (since it's a 3 year budget, activities need to be disagreggated to see their progress and justify their need for budget through the years) - There is a national satistics office under the Ministry of Finance 
8=  The evidence derived from M&E that decision makers use for the budgetary process is not optimal. They use historical expenditure or performance to engage how realistic it is for some intervention to be implemented. It's not ideal because the data we are using is not as comprehensive as we would like. 
8= The implementation plan than the ministries provide every 3 months has to contain the indicators that will measure their expected outcomes. 
8= In principle, we should be guided by the indicators in determining the diessement of additional funds before giving them, but sometimes the situation require fast track implementation and we can't wait for the results. (ESTO ES LO QUE CREO QUE EL CUADRO C16 DICE, CHANCE VERIFICAR)
8= The PSIP's project proposal has a link with the NRDS objectives: what is approved in the PSIP has to be alignes witht he country's development objectives
8= In respect of the financing component of the Climate Resilience and Recovery Plan (CRRP), the Disaster Resilience Strategy, please see website: https://dominica.gov.dm/images/documents/DisasterResilienceStrategy-AnnextoCRRPKM.pdf.  For national budget estimates , please visit http://finance.gov.dm/budget/estimates For the CRRP, please visit: https://dominica.gov.dm/images/documents/CRRP-Final-042020.pdf 
1= Stages of developping and approving the National Resilience Development Strategy 2030. The following MDA's and actors are involved in the development and approval of the plan:  - All MDAs  provide input into the NRDS, Validate various dras of document  - External partners provide feedback on dra document ( The International Monetary Fund was engaged to craft the Disaster Resilince Strategy) - Societal groups and business organizations provide input in document - Cabinet approve draft strategy for onward approval of Parliament - Parliment approves strategy  
1= Some documents created regarding the NRDS 2030 and the MDA in charge: - Progress reports on national development programmes and projects are produces by the MDA responsible for implementation. The document is directed for the Ministry of Planning, Cabinet (for strategic priority initiatives) Reports are submitted for the attention of the Public Sector Investment Programme Unit- Public Sector Investmennt Programme Performance Reports are produced by the Ministry of Planning and are meant for the Misnitry of Finance and Cabinet. The reports are prepared monthly and on an cumulative basis- Economic and Socila Review are produced by the Ministry of Planning and it is meant for all MDAs, Cabinet, Parliament, Public. Reviews the implementation of programmes and projects for a given fiscal year. These programmes and projects are aligned to the NRDS.Prepared in the last quarter of the fiscal year. This one is available in https://dominica.gov.dm/government-publications/national-development-strategies/economic-and-social-review  
1= Some documents created regarding the CRRP 2020- 2030 and the MDA in charge:- CREAD producs the Policy Papers and they are meand for the CREAD policy board and the cabinet  
8= The Financia Administration Act (1994) is the main legal framwork providing guidelines for the control and management of Dominica's public finances. The Finance (Administration) Act, Act No. 
4= of 1994 Please see: http://www.dominica.gov.dm/laws/1994/act4-1994.pdf Please note that a new Procurement Actis being developed 
8= There is a budget calendar with a list of seauential activities of the budgetary process. It is uploaded on the Q (Lo voy a subir a Teams)  
8= We'll list the MDAs involved in the budgetary process: - Project officers, Permanent Secretaries, Ministers (1) Identify project concept and formulate project design documents (2) Conduct pre-feasibility assessments; (3) Submit project proposals - Ministry of Planning (PSIP Unit)  (1) Guide the formulation and project specification processes; (2) Review project submissions and conduct appraisals; (3) Produce project list for Cabinet approval, (4) Provide PSIP funding requirements for budget formulation - Ministry of Finance (Budget Division)  (1) Formulate the national budget to include the capital component; (2) monitor budget performance; (3) Recommend requisite funding for projects in year - Ministry of Finance (Debt Division) (1) Facilitates the mobilization and disbursement of loan funds - Office of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet approve projects to include in the capital budget - Ministry of Finance ( Accountant General Department) (1) Facilitate the dereservation/release of project funds; (2)Accounts for resources made available and used; (3) Establish/Enforce project accounting procedure; (4) Facilitate the production of quality expenditure data 
8= The Dominica's Budget Adress 2020-2021 in the ministery of Finance and Investments's website is a  budget address for the Fiscal Year 2021/22 Budget Address sought approval to appropriate an amount of $993.6 million from the Consolidated Fund. Of this amount, $438,9 million was allocated to Government’s Public Sector Investment Programme (PSIP). Under the PSIP, the development of the International Airportis the single most prominent project, with estimated expenditure of $75 million. 
8= The MDAs and stakeholders involved in the development and approval of the Budget Adress are the following: - Division heads and Permanent Secretaries are in charge of submitting Budget Contributions  - Budget Address Preparation Committee collates contributions -  The Cabinet reviews draft budget Adresses  -  The Parliment approves Budget Adresses and Appropiation Bill 
8= Again in the ministry of Finance and Investment website, there is a document with the Budget Estimate. The Budget Estimates includes central government revenue and expenditures which are planned , authorized and controlled through the national budget. It consists of two components:  (1)Revenue, which includes domestic revenue, grants and loans and  (2) Expenditure which covers recurrent and development expenditures. The recurrent budget finances routine tasks to maintain the status quo, while the development/capital budget finances development activities carried out to contribute toward specific progress or improvement on present status. 
8= Stages in which the Bdget estimate is developped and who is in charge of what:  - All MDAs submit estimates of recurrent and capital expenditure ; defend budgetary proposals during budget discussions and subsequent bi-laterals - The Ministry of Planning PSIP Unit) reviews capital proposals with estimates; Undertake all tasks associated with the formulation and rationalization of the capital estimates prior to Cabinet approval; Submit capital estimates for Cabinet Approval; Prepare capital templates for Printery - The Ministry of Finance reviews and rationalize recurrent proposals; Submit for the approval of Minister of Finance; Prepare and submit recurrent templates to Printery
8= The NAtional budget is allocated inertially, according to objectives and activities of the national plan, it uses information generated by  M&E activities, it is defined in annual terms, considering mid and long term objectives; in terms of how aligned is it with international commitments, provisioning and disbursement is contingent on terms of signed funding agreements particlarly disbursement schedule. It does not establish specific allocation of resources for M&E activities.  
7= There are guidelins that explain the relationship between planning and budgetting. Uploaded on Teams  
8= There are guidelins that explain the relationship between planning and budgetting. Uploaded on Teams 
8=  Budgeting is mainly the function of the finance  ministry and the ministry of economic affairs and planning
8= Halfway through the budget ptreparation, there is a review where programes are reviewed to determine their needs for the second half of the period (we have no guidelins on this review)
2= Some time ago we commenced a process whereby we aimed to develop a document standard operational procedures for the PSIP. We made some progress, but it's not completed
7= There is an ambassador in Dominica dedicates to CARICOM's affairs 
6= The main  sources of resistance for adopting and implementing an RBM system in Dominica function and practices are planning and programme execution.
6= The Prime Minister,  the Cabinet Office, NGOs, and  the Minister for Econ Aairs PlanningREsilience & Sustainable Development have a high level of commitment on implementing an RBM system, The parliment's and the citizen's level of commitment is medium; the Permanent Secretaries' is low 
8= MDAs have to submit information on their use of budget. It is required for MDAs so they can see what they have achieved but we need to fight with them for them to submit but they do not bother because if they do not comply they still get their budget
5= There are drafts or approved guidelines that establish the rules and processes to address and use of M&E results by Dominica's MDAs. They can't be found on websites explicitly. M&E frameworks are expected to be embedded in capital project proposal submissions. (Guideline will be shared via email)
5= These guidelines y identify mechanisms to monitor the address and use of M&E results and establish rules and processes that require the budgeting process to consider the results of M&E activities (they make explicit the link between planning and budgeting).
6= There are no incentives for using the results and recommendations from M&E activities
9= Dr. Paul mentions that a PSIP M&E system is still not in place, but they  have identified the consultants to do so; they developed an M&E system for Belize. The advantage of this model is that it links M&E to the budget estimates and the financial management software that makes it very easy to tie in the monitoring of funds to actual project activities.
11= There is not a comprehensive plan in terms of M&E in Dominica 
9= There is a "system" in place for monitoring and reporting. All ministries submit project proposals,  bottlenecks are identified, visits to the projects are held (Planning has systems in place to collect data). Also, all ministries provide monthly reports of their programmes' implementation and budget expenditure to the Ministry of Planning using a standardized template. No matter where the projects resides, it is the same template that is reported to the Ministery of Planning. 
12=  Mrs. Joseph and Dr. Paul  are asking  every ministry to submit a champion and drive the RBM system within each ministeries in order to work on a synchronized  and harmonized track Mrs. Joseph identifies the City & village councils, the local government figures of Dominica, as a key stakeholder in the implementation of social programmes. They administer some part of government social protection programmes. For certain programs, the government will tranfer the funds to these organizations 
12= There is no defines human resource structure for M&E activities across government  
11= None of the MDAs have M&E institutional arrangements such as specific units for M&E activities, operative handbooks for M&E activities
11 = Details on the the general responsibilities of ministers and permanent secretaries:- Ministers --> political leaders who exercise general direction and control of the Ministry - Permanent Secretaries --> adminsitrative head of Misnityries and chief authorising oicers. They ensure that the policies of the Minister are implemented, reports are submitted, etc. They sign all contracts and authorize payments upon consultation with the Minister. 
12= Details on the the general responsibilities of ministers and permanent secretaries:- Ministers --> political leaders who exercise general direction and control of the Ministry - Permanent Secretaries --> adminsitrative head of Misnityries and chief authorising oicers. They ensure that the policies of the Minister are implemented, reports are submitted, etc. They sign all contracts and authorize payments upon consultation with the Minister. 
11 = A public servant can be permanent secretary in one ministry and senior economist in another one. The oicer is typically appointed to one post butreceives an allowance for carrying on the duties of another. Permanent Secretaries, in particular, oen hold dual roles...as Permanent Secretary in two dierent Ministries.
 
12= A public servant can be permanent secretary in one ministry and senior economist in another one. The oicer is typically appointed to one post butreceives an allowance for carrying on the duties of another. Permanent Secretaries, in particular, oen hold dual roles...as Permanent Secretary in two dierent Ministries.
7= There are two national planning exercices defined for a long term period: the National Resilience Development Strategy (NRDS) 2030 and the Climate’s Resilience and Recovery Plan (CRRP) 2020-2030
8= There is a process with key milestones of the national budgetary process, all within the Financial Adminitration Act
11= There is no operating and functioning M&E system, the MDAs who would be more likely to engage are Health, Education and Agriculture. They have data. It could be a vehicle for advancing the concept 
11 =  There is no specific unit wothin the MDAs responsible for M&E. It’s all done in collaboration and consultation with the ministries 
12=  There is no specific unit wothin the MDAs responsible for M&E. It’s all done in collaboration and consultation with the ministries
13= Dr. Paul mentions there are no private entities providing M&E training to the public sector
13= The World Bank and CDB have previously provided M&E training. Recently, the Ministry of Agriculture had some M&E training due to a World Bank agricultural project
15 = There are no M&E stablished positions anywhere in the government makes it difficult to put into practice 
16= There are no M&E stablished positions anywhere in the government makes it difficult to put into practice
15 = There is no dedicated personel to champion and assure the quality of M&E outputs/recommendations. We have the capacity but it's spreadamong some people. There are no positions or champions.
16= There is no dedicated personel to champion and assure the quality of M&E outputs/recommendations. We have the capacity but it's spreadamong some people. There are no positions or champions.
13= CARICOM has a leadership program (CRLG) every few years
14= There are skilled personnel in some/all of Dominica's MDAs with technical capacity and competencies to conduct budgeting for results. 
14= The MDAs are categorized as follows accordin to their level of technical capacity to conduct budgeting for results:  HIGH level:  - Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning. (Both ministries lead on the preparation of the annual budget estimates). * Their strenghts:  production of annual economic & social reviews which are tabled with the budget estimates; usually serve as a report card on activities and projects implemented by MDAs so as to encourage investments in continued or new projects in the following year.   * The challenges they face: Implementation rate still hovers around 60% due to several factors including resource availability, poor conceptualization of some projects and emerging and competing priorities. - Ministry of Planning Oice of the Cabinet Secretary (A programme and project appraisal system that adopts a methodological approach was recenty instituted)* Their strenghts: Projects and programmes are appraised through a comprehensive and participatory approach *Challenges: Full system not yet approved MEDIUM level: Real sectors such as Agriculture and tourism - Strenghts: ability to mobilize donor investments which usually is accompanied by technical support LOW level: Social ministries 
15= There are skilled personnel in some/all of Dominica's MDAs with technical capacity and competencies to conduct monitoring for results
15=  The MDAs are categorized as follows accordin to their level of technical capacity to conduct monitoring for results:  HIGH: Ministry of Planning  -  Strenghs: An online system for M & E is currenty being developed - Challenges: There is competence; however, the dedicated capacity is lacking
16= There are not skilled personnel in some/all of Dominica's MDAs with technical capacity and competencies to conduct evaluation for results. The Ministry of Planning has some capacity based on training exposure, but it's only medium level. Some capacity line MDA's are encouraged to build M&E into programmes but we still face challenges in terms of dedicated human resource capacity and systematic approach to programme and project evaluation; usually done through consultancies
16= There is a lack of capacity to perform evaluations; specifically in the Ministry of Planning. However, donors evaluate their funded capital projects
13= The World Bank who is doing a few projects in Dominica has online M&E courses that they do online in order to build capacity
13= Mr. Laville mentions there are no private entities providing M&E training to the public sector
13= CREAD started to develop a programme of capacity building with three levels.  The first level is focused on awareness, trying to make participants aware of what it involves and trying to make them experts. The second level is focused on developing skills through online courses and training so that they have the skills necessary to actually go and execute some specific functions. The third level that is professional where that person is well trained to a higher level and they can oversee everything and properly distirbutue duties and responsabilities in order to make sure that the total requirement is fine.
15= The people have capacity and competence to do M&E but they need training, technique and tools to do it.
16= The people have capacity and competence to do M&E but they need training, technique and tools to do it.
13= CARICOM put on a workshop with the Commonwealth in 2019 and they brought the ministeries together tp show them how to set their goals, visions and objectives, but it didn't get to the M&E aspect.
13= There are some Civic Social Organization that sometimes provide evaluation reports. They are not optimal because they are not constant. 
17= There are different stakeholders that demand accountability: international donors, parliament, private sector, etc. There is a  procedure in the Parliament called question tank . The opposition  can choose a particular matter that it wants more information on and raise a question in parliament parliament that has to be answered by government, it has to be answered properly and there is an opportunity for secondary questions to follow up. The private sector can also call for questions to the executive. They can choose the channel these questions are communicated to the Executive
18= There is a bit of lack of incentives to use evidence but the real problem relies more in the lack of data. Incentives would neverhteless be usefull. Not necesarrilly monetary but of recognition. We need a system that recognices performance , a rewards program 
17= there are ministries that have mechanisms for transparency : National Security, general chambers, the division of label, financial intelligent unit, the integrity commission, the local commissions

